Chris Unwin (He/They): Hello there everybody and welcome back to red gate db to podcast number, whatever it is we've lost track, but thank you for joining us my name, as always, is Chris.
Chris Kerswell: My name is Graham.
Grant Fritchey: And my name is Chris.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Excellent so we're all hanging on it.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Dear you would have thought that gets old anytime we get a guest, but no, fortunately, this time, we have an incredible guest for you grant you've been on do before I mean you.
Grant Fritchey: know.
Chris Kerswell: Be referenced.
Chris Unwin (He/They): grow Oh, do you know what.
Grant Fritchey: grant is I don't think i've ever done.
Chris Unwin (He/They): ground, is where we got all of our information for servers that go bump in the night time the Halloween episode.
Chris Kerswell: spoken from the scary db himself.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Exactly exactly.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So grant Thank you so much for joining us for ddl today.
Grant Fritchey: we're so happy to.
Chris Unwin (He/They): And of course it's 11:30am your time and on a Monday on.
Chris Unwin (He/They): My goal today.
Grant Fritchey: And with yeah I mean there's no game on so I mean I can't really excuse this but.
Grant Fritchey: Do it anyway yeah.
Chris Unwin (He/They): that's fair enough.
Grant Fritchey: I mean i've got a got my red gate bottle opener and.
Grant Fritchey: let's do it.
well.
Chris Unwin (He/They): yeah I know right.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Oh grants already tapped into the beer he's he doesn't care he's just like it's roughly lunchtime i'm straight in their lives off.
Chris Unwin (He/They): oh dear well in that case, then I will then i'll actually do the introduction to the episode and that of course is welcome, everyone oh gosh i'm not used to wearing these headphones so i'm throwing them everywhere.
Chris Unwin (He/They): For anyone who can't see me in future recordings I am throwing headphones tangling myself up like a snake.
Chris Unwin (He/They): But today we're going to be talking all things database devops in fact cool would you think about the state of it all the state of database devops, of course.
Chris Unwin (He/They): The annual survey from red gate.
Chris Unwin (He/They): which has just been published so that's publicly available, we will tell you at the end of today's podcast there's no sense in spoiling it we want you to listen to it, we will tell you at the end of today's podcast where you can go to get a copy of the report.
Chris Unwin (He/They): But for now, Chris and I are going to play a little game with grant grant has prepared a number of statistics from the state of database devops reports.
Chris Unwin (He/They): And we are going to try and guess what database devops is like in 2021 so we've got we've got a fair bit of work ahead of us, of course, to do the work we're going to need one thing and that of course is.
Chris Unwin (He/They): What is it Chris.
Chris Kerswell: A drink.
Chris Unwin (He/They): A drink that's a very, very specific, very well, no sorry.
Chris Kerswell: So specific general.
Chris Unwin (He/They): it's a very nonspecific generalization of drink that Chris white why might, you have said, the word drink there oh.
Chris Kerswell: Because today i'm trying to be a little bit more healthy and not drink in February so as a result i've got my meager glass of water.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So the plan was for you to have non alcoholic beer.
Chris Kerswell: And unfortunately, Chris moved the.
Chris Kerswell: recording of today, so I didn't have a chance to go to the shop I.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Did I did not, I did for well okay well, what do you have for us to what do you have to enjoy today.
Grant Fritchey: Well, I am drinking a fuller's ESB so there wasn't a whole lot of choice for British beer, it was it was this or what is it speckled hen.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I do love a speckled hen.
Chris Unwin (He/They): it's one of my favorites I do love us back would have.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Actually I don't think i've had one since going vegan energy, so I don't know if it's Chris you probably knows of spec would have vegan friendly.
Chris Kerswell: Already I expect we'll turn that.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Now right well fair enough never I.
Chris Kerswell: really like old crafty and that's a good.
Chris Unwin (He/They): One oh yeah I know.
Chris Kerswell: yeah I prefer the crafty one but that one's quite good to think there's an aged one as well, but that's hard to find.
Grant Fritchey: Okay now i've only ever seen the speckled hen and i'm not a fan.
Chris Unwin (He/They): well.
Chris Unwin (He/They): yeah one one day one day when all of this is over, all of this will be yours, we will make sure that when you're back over in the UK and we're all able to see and hug each other, I mean maybe not hug but you get the just will be able to go out and try all the different hands and.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Maybe we'll convert.
Chris Kerswell: Old golden.
Chris Unwin (He/They): golden hands nice I haven't had that in a while.
Chris Unwin (He/They): But today I am drinking in fact i've i've mentioned actually on a previous db l episode that I get deliveries of beer because that's who I am.
Chris Unwin (He/They): And today, I went for a lucky dip so I reached into one of these boxes of beer and I I pulled out a beer, that is from the moon dog craft brewery which is located in.
Chris Unwin (He/They): abbotsford Victoria in the lovely sunny i'm very envious of them because it's a beautiful amazing country.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Australia and, as you can see, if anyone is actually watching the actual recording it is just called as far as I can tell beer can, and it has the words beer can Emblazoned all around the can and not much else.
Chris Kerswell: On a funny topic here, but for anyone listening from Jamaica he's saying two separate worlds that beer and.
Chris Unwin (He/They): yeah.
Chris Unwin (He/They): he's just just inferring that i'm saying the word bacon.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Anyway, so the only description of this beer that I have is that it says it's a tropical Lager.
Chris Unwin (He/They): That that's that's it.
Chris Kerswell: information overload.
Chris Unwin (He/They): information overload it does also say that there's a 10 cent refund at collection depots in participating state or territories of purchase.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So i'm gonna i'm gonna have to travel a long way for that 10 cents, but it will be worth it.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Anyway, i'm gonna crack this open because grants already tackled his yeah 1130 bottoms up and Chris is on the water so.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Excellent.
Chris Unwin (He/They): And i'll pull this into my water glass, because you know no sense, using another glass.
Chris Unwin (He/They): save on washing up.
Chris Kerswell: And we'll watch you.
Chris Kerswell: just say the words beer can be can be.
Chris Unwin (He/They): There can be a chemical ooh.
Chris Unwin (He/They): it's got this lovely kind of I can only describe it as an almost pineapple the yellow color.
Grant Fritchey: And it does have.
Chris Unwin (He/They): It does have that tropical note to it as well.
Grant Fritchey: that's got a very golden look yeah.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Oh yeah that is considerably quotable I will I will get through that quite readily i'm sure.
Chris Kerswell: i'm not a beer in 15 days and I haven't been.
Chris Kerswell: A need for one until this point now on her feeling very.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Well, the last time I had a beer was the last ddl which I think is.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I don't know how long ago is, but it was a while ago.
Chris Kerswell: You should.
Chris Kerswell: cut down I don't know how long ago was.
Grant Fritchey: Generally don't drink beer unless i'm on the road.
Grant Fritchey: And I had to go out and buy this just for you guys.
well.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Thank you.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Tremendous, so in that case, then there's no sense, no cents 10 cents.
Chris Unwin (He/They): you're wasting any more time i've got my beer grants got his beer.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Because Chris has got water i'm good right insert disappointed crowd noise here.
Chris Unwin (He/They): There we go that's what we think about your water but let's let's jump on to the main event, then so i'm going to hand over, of course, the reins to our host of the month, that being ground.
Grant Fritchey: Okay well let's start off at the top.
Grant Fritchey: How many people responded to our data or 21 state of database devops survey.
Chris Kerswell: Are we going to write it down and then review or do you want us to just blurt.
Grant Fritchey: I don't know blurted out.
Chris Unwin (He/They): yeah we can we can I mean I should I should be completely honest and i'm sure you know.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Wherever they are produced to the ways carly and and everyone who's involved in this report and tremendous amount of work, it is as well.
Chris Unwin (He/They): As probably going to be disappointed by the fact that I totally missed the the internal briefing that we had on it, so I literally know nothing I know zip zip.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I have received the recording and it is down, and I will be watching it tomorrow morning before work in my own time because that's time I should make up.
Chris Unwin (He/They): But I have purposefully just put off a couple of days reading some of the insights watching some of those insights just so that I know.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Nada.
Grant Fritchey: Why, I went and did to internal red gate demos on it i'm walk through one of them before i'm supposed to I got told later, but uh.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Well, free information right we're we're big believers in in data and data is knowledge so yeah a little bit early can't hurt anyone.
Chris Kerswell: i'm gonna guess 2000.
Chris Unwin (He/They): i'm going to guess 2500.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Up higher.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Higher 3000 4000.
Grant Fritchey: Now now.
Grant Fritchey: 3247.
Chris Kerswell: What no that's.
Grant Fritchey: 50% more more than 50% above last year last year was 2000 That was our big push last year was to get to 2000.
Grant Fritchey: This year we made 3200.
Grant Fritchey: very exciting.
Chris Unwin (He/They): that's incredible so well done.
Grant Fritchey: It makes the the data.
More.
Grant Fritchey: Useful right the larger larger data set means that that the information and it has more meaning so it's it's i'm so excited about it this year, because we have so many respondents.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Nice well and.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Then I will take that point from UK as well.
Chris Kerswell: hey.
Chris Kerswell: So we just go for number of guesses.
Chris Kerswell: First guess was.
Chris Kerswell: close to the mind.
Chris Kerswell: Alright here's another concede let.
Grant Fritchey: me ask.
Grant Fritchey: Let me ask you this, do you think we had more.
Grant Fritchey: developers or db as a response to our survey.
Chris Unwin (He/They): that's a tough one.
Chris Unwin (He/They): you're going with developers.
Chris Kerswell: Just because there's more often that.
Chris Unwin (He/They): You say that.
Chris Kerswell: I mean that's 100% more developers than DPA is in the world.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I mean that's so Dr.
Grant Fritchey: About 500% more.
Are.
Chris Unwin (He/They): i'm still going to go with dbs I think that you know it's a it's a report about database devops and I think as db as are increasingly becoming.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Like platform reliability engineers site reliability engineers database reliability engineers, you know.
Chris Unwin (He/They): they're gradually moving into a slightly more well I say slightly they've always been a more devops hero because they've always had to kind of interact with lots of different people and stuff so.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I I still feel like a lot of the information will come from those kind of subject matter experts.
Grant Fritchey: yeah sadly you're wrong.
Grant Fritchey: 41% were developers and only 16% were were dbs.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Oh ah, but a rose by any other name.
Grant Fritchey: Well, it could be database developers to I mean who knows, but i'm i'm sure i'm not sure what's in the details alright, so let me ask you another one on this.
Grant Fritchey: What percentage are either architect or CIO sea level C suite leadership types.
Chris Kerswell: i'm okay with.
Chris Unwin (He/They): 2020 I think I think before I guess I think perhaps it might be worthwhile just.
Chris Unwin (He/They): it's really, really interesting because architects and cios do play a really important role in adopting database devops.
Grant Fritchey: Oh yeah.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I think you know from from experience it's very much a case that a lot of boards are pushing this kind of top level objective saying what we want is to.
Chris Unwin (He/They): be able to respond to the market, you know, we need to be able to pivot in the event of a business critical event, we need to respond to our customer base and nothing kind of highlighted that more than, say, you know the coronavirus or.
Chris Unwin (He/They): The change it, you know, the world is changing, and there are going to be demands as we come out of lockdown and.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Businesses have to adopt and adapt and you know a lot of businesses at a top level are saying hey, we need to be ready to react at a moment's notice, and the only way to do that is to grab this monolithic massive thing this database.
Chris Unwin (He/They): and make it not monolithic and not like steering the Titanic.
Grant Fritchey: yeah.
Chris Kerswell: yeah.
Chris Kerswell: just starting to thought tonight well what analogy is represented by the the architect.
Chris Unwin (He/They): In.
Chris Kerswell: June.
Chris Kerswell: navigator or.
Chris Kerswell: Sorry, this is a complete aside.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I think doesn't.
Chris Unwin (He/They): doesn't the architect, I mean.
Chris Unwin (He/They): The architect is the person that looks at the ship and goes.
Chris Unwin (He/They): yeah that's that's that's wildly horribly inefficient, what we need to do is chock this bit often chop that bit off and streamline this bit and then these are the people we need to have involved so they're kind of involved.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Their backup base of ship returns to base, and then they go right with decommissioning this and we're sending this new one out.
Chris Kerswell: far enough, and like RON said what's your guess.
Chris Unwin (He/They): i'm gonna if we only had 16% db as responding i'm gonna go with.
Grant Fritchey: 8% 32.
know.
Grant Fritchey: 16 16% were analysts and architects and 16% were it leadership CIO cto director.
Chris Unwin (He/They): that's incredible that's.
Grant Fritchey: Yes, it's amazing yeah 30% of our respondents for that, for the survey where were you know decision makers, so this is fantastic information that's why.
Grant Fritchey: there's been they've been using ads with with my name on i'm saying i'm so excited about this, I could pop.
Grant Fritchey: it's like I haven't been able to share any of this stuff online with anyone until you know we published so.
Grant Fritchey: let's hold off it's been making me crazy.
Chris Unwin (He/They): wow that's that's crazy it's.
Chris Unwin (He/They): it's really great to see so many more people.
Chris Unwin (He/They): buying into you know hey we've realized that we can do all these amazing things on the application side you know we've done everything from upgraded the infrastructure to go in cloud native to you know deploying on to Cuban SES clusters and now it's like.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Did someone mentioned data and.
Chris Unwin (He/They): People are really getting involved, which is.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Great so yeah really nice to say.
Grant Fritchey: i'm excited about it so that brings up another one, let me ask you this, five years ago, when we first did the survey.
Grant Fritchey: Had 20% people saying that there is no way.
Grant Fritchey: They have no plans, they are not doing devops.
Grant Fritchey: What percentage is that now.
Chris Unwin (He/They): specifically for the database yeah.
Grant Fritchey: yeah yeah database devops.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Okay well.
Grant Fritchey: I think this one's a general devops but but regardless, it was 20% said no, no way.
Chris Kerswell: But, five years ago.
Grant Fritchey: yeah five years ago.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Why Why would anyone ever say no devops is a bad thing, I mean unless you were building a bridge but.
Chris Unwin (He/They): we're going to build this incrementally.
Chris Unwin (He/They): tested now.
Chris Kerswell: And then release it.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Minimum viable product minimum viable product is.
Chris Unwin (He/They): build the dawn branch.
Chris Kerswell: Going Chris.
Chris Unwin (He/They): ooh i'm going to say now that that's probably closer to like 4%.
Chris Kerswell: Or, so a little bit i'm gonna go with 10%.
Grant Fritchey: Mr curse well is close.
Grant Fritchey: it's 11% but it's it's cut in half it's 50%.
Grant Fritchey: You know it's been cut in half over the last five years, so there's you know 20% of people said there's no way.
Grant Fritchey: Interestingly enough, the same numbers of people are like who are planning to adopt went from 30% down to 15 because the number of people who have at least done some of it has gone from 12 to 26 and from 35 to 48.
Chris Unwin (He/They): wow OK, so the people who were planning are actually.
Chris Kerswell: Doing yeah.
Grant Fritchey: yeah yeah I mean 70 some odd percent of people have at least some devops in their in their you know at least what they're calling devops in their processes.
Chris Unwin (He/They): whining and then actually rolling out Chris you could stand to learn something here for our team.
Grant Fritchey: yeah and that's.
Grant Fritchey: that's from 47% five years ago, so I mean it's you know.
Grant Fritchey: devops has arrived, I mean I mean it's just.
Grant Fritchey: Our first survey, five years ago it was less than half of all people have any kind of devops at all, and now it's 74% I mean that's it.
Chris Unwin (He/They): it's kind of interesting isn't it you kind of feel like with so many people doing devops and when so many people are aiming to do devops.
Chris Unwin (He/They): And you know we're using this as a very general kind of blanket term right doing devops obviously involves a huge amount of work.
Chris Unwin (He/They): You know in with both your with your personnel with your processes with your technology involves a tremendous amount of planning rollout and buy in but like do you feel like there's going to be a point at which we just stopped saying devops and it just becomes standard working practice.
Grant Fritchey: yeah oh yeah I think so already I mean I mean cuz I first started doing devops it didn't have a name, we just I mean, I see this joke all the time is i'm gonna have to stop saying at some point we just thought it was our job.
Grant Fritchey: didn't have a title we just did it because it was like automate this automate that make it all run fast, so we can support more teams, so we can do more work, so we can run faster, so we can do more, you know.
Grant Fritchey: That was just how we were getting stuff done.
Grant Fritchey: Then we come to find out it actually had a name it's kind of cool.
Chris Unwin (He/They): yeah and that's The interesting thing, as well as getting it done is very synonymous with devils because if you take that whole phrase, and just break it down into hey just do it right it's a phrase very near and dear to the heart of our of our founder Simon Galbraith.
Chris Kerswell: Just just likes microphones.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I Okay, just to make sure that I don't infringe on coffee right then i'm going to say just get something done.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Which is my my knockoff brand.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So you want to just get something done the actual kind of intonation of that is hey do it now do it, you know do it in short sprint's.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Do something right stop being paralyzed with decisions and actually make a decision.
Chris Unwin (He/They): it's kind of like the lean it principles, where, if you keep you know you do differ decisions, but when you have enough information you make that decision you go ahead and do the thing.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So it's really nice, I think it really embodies the spirit of devops which is great that you've got the aurora borealis behind you on your.
Chris Unwin (He/They): On your background as.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Well, I kind of feel like you're just being a washed with like devops rays.
Grant Fritchey: Just rub devops on my mess it makes it feel better just all you need.
Chris Unwin (He/They): blimey.
Grant Fritchey: Okay here's fun one.
Grant Fritchey: us in terms of you know, enterprise midsize businesses or small businesses, what percentage of enterprise businesses have adopted across all projects.
Chris Kerswell: ooh who projects.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Enterprise so enterprise enterprise organizations and all projects.
yeah.
Chris Unwin (He/They): hmm yeah that's a tough one, because, on one hand enterprises are being you know pushed by the people who are disrupting the market you've got you know.
Chris Unwin (He/They): banking and finance all of a sudden, having to adopt new working practices or else they're just left behind by the competition, but at the same time they're also the people who have a billion different projects all on at the same time.
yeah.
Chris Kerswell: All projects.
Chris Kerswell: Chris give us.
Grant Fritchey: Give us a number make a guess.
Chris Kerswell: 12 12% who I see, I thought I was going to lowball and go for like 30 but that's that's even.
Chris Unwin (He/They): yeah but.
Chris Unwin (He/They): All projects every single project.
Chris Kerswell: All right, i'm gonna go with 20.
Grant Fritchey: Ah, Mr curse well as winning again.
Grant Fritchey: or.
Third.
Grant Fritchey: yeah.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Oh, I guess, I thought you said, half the guests, in which case I was right.
Grant Fritchey: Okay, so now what percentage of medium sized businesses have all.
Chris Unwin (He/They): You get to go first this time cuz well because.
Chris Unwin (He/They): i've been first the last couple times and you've just like gone in slightly above me.
Chris Kerswell: And we go, yes, the edging type be greatly just edge them out.
Chris Kerswell: 70% is what i'm going to go with.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Oh.
Chris Kerswell: i'm locking user a medium.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Your i'm gonna go with 69%.
Grant Fritchey: Both wildly wrong 20%.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Ah ha.
Grant Fritchey: difference, so what percentage of small companies have off of their projects on.
Chris Unwin (He/They): i'm going to repeat my 69 right now, I think I think now we get into small companies who only have like one or two simultaneous projects on 100% well not hundred percent but i'm 100% positive is gonna be high.
Chris Kerswell: yeah I mean traditionally you think greenfield is much easier to do this kind of stuff and.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Small Business not equal necessarily greenfield, though, like you, could be a small.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Business we have been around for like 50 years.
Chris Kerswell: ago.
Chris Unwin (He/They): With a 60% 24 number.
Grant Fritchey: that's exactly the same across all three.
Grant Fritchey: But here's the thing.
Grant Fritchey: Is because we're all leaning towards a will medium is going to have more in small is going to have more, but in fact the enterprise is got the largest percentage of adoption by far.
Grant Fritchey: 46% have dropped it across some projects as opposed to 39 for medium sized businesses and 31 for small.
Chris Kerswell: Never just the.
Grant Fritchey: Enterprise enterprises are leading the charge on devops.
Chris Unwin (He/They): that's interesting, we could I say i'm sure we could speculate why.
Chris Unwin (He/They): i'm i'm honestly quite flabbergasted if i'm if i'm honest I did not expect those figures to be like they are maybe enterprises have the resources or.
Chris Kerswell: you're you're right when you when you kind of roll with the punches now when when I think enterprise, I think, great big monolithic organization they can't move toward the Titanic.
Chris Kerswell: Trying to avoid the iceberg, and I think smallest like that few developers, who are starting their own company, for the first time, but you know you're right small company could be like an accountancy firm that's been around for 100 years.
Grant Fritchey: yeah yeah it's pretty fun um let's see let's get another one.
Chris Unwin (He/They): i'm enjoying this this I could.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Do How long have we got for ddl today because i'm thinking i'm thinking like a three hour bumper special.
Chris Kerswell: I was hoping i'd be able to eat today but we'll see.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Did you not have lunch.
Chris Kerswell: lunch, but you need second lunch and dinner, and secondly.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I don't know if he knows about second dinner pip.
Grant Fritchey: Alright, so here's a fun one.
Grant Fritchey: um barriers and challenges to implementing devops okay.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Link service.
Grant Fritchey: replication.
Grant Fritchey: Set me on fire anyway.
Grant Fritchey: um.
Grant Fritchey: What was or what would be the main obstacle to implementing a devops approach in your organization was one of the questions we asked and we got a lot of responses.
Grant Fritchey: One of the responses, is a classic and its lack of support from executive leadership.
Grant Fritchey: is one of the reasons for people not being able to implement devops.
Grant Fritchey: What percentage of people today not five years ago today cuz cuz, this is an interesting thing.
Grant Fritchey: How many people are not able to get executive leadership.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Well, as you go work for the companies where these cios and architects are filling in the report work.
Grant Fritchey: yeah no kidding.
Chris Kerswell: Trying to remember the number habits that they had no plans to adopt devops.
Chris Kerswell: Was 1111.
Grant Fritchey: yeah because you were one off you had you get 10.
Chris Unwin (He/They): i'm.
Chris Kerswell: gonna go with.
Chris Unwin (He/They): 20% 20% like this year.
Chris Unwin (He/They): That are blocked by executive buy in i'm gonna go with 34%.
Grant Fritchey: eight.
Chris Kerswell: wow.
Grant Fritchey: 8% that's radically down over the last five years, all right, we don't I don't have the numbers in front of me to tell you exactly what but it's radically down.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So.
Grant Fritchey: What do you think what you think the number one Blocker is.
Chris Unwin (He/They): going to be time isn't it time firefighting Oh, I would implement better proactive monitoring across these hundred servers but unfortunately I just all these darn weight stats that I just I need to focus on every day.
Chris Kerswell: Is a good call out, I was thinking, it would be time money or culture.
Chris Unwin (He/They): um I think we're getting past the point now where people think that devops is a bad thing, like if you've got executive buy in and you've got technical buy in then realistically if middle managers.
Chris Unwin (He/They): don't buy in then they've got to deal with it from both directions so it's it's got to be I am under resourced I don't have the time to do this or that.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Or that people are skills hoarding you know oh it's kind of like the phoenix project right Brent is hoarding all of the knowledge of various systems and because we don't do a good job of spreading that knowledge.
Chris Unwin (He/They): diversifying the skills within our own workforce, then things go.
Grant Fritchey: Right.
Grant Fritchey: Well, you ready.
Chris Kerswell: Oh yeah.
Grant Fritchey: Lack of appropriate skills is.
Grant Fritchey: number two is time is the disruption to the business disruption to existing workflows which I think I think when you say time I think it's exactly what they mean.
Grant Fritchey: yeah that's it was really interesting.
Grant Fritchey: Cultural resistance as as a top challenge is only 15% most people are.
Grant Fritchey: People are shifting cultures it, it is literally a lack of skills, that is, is the one the one thing limiting people from implementing it, which is awesome for us.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So grand in that case, then obviously you were saying that you've implemented devops a long, long time before you even knew it was called devops right, and this is yeah not many years ago, but some years ago.
Grant Fritchey: It was quite a few years.
Chris Unwin (He/They): All right, we'll say.
Chris Unwin (He/They): we'll say 10 years ago so 10 years ago you've implemented devops at your organization, what kind of cultural push back, did you get and was it an executive thing or was it a technical colleague.
Grant Fritchey: Honest to God we did it and it was, by the way, 15 years ago.
Chris Kerswell: wasn't born lemons fun.
Chris Unwin (He/They): was born, it was 2006 and I was 15.
Grant Fritchey: and
Grant Fritchey: The main resistance was me the main resistance was technical um we might myself and the db team were adamant that we can't automate deployments that it's just not something you can do, let alone, something that you want to do, and so yeah we fought them tooth and nail.
Grant Fritchey: Ultimately, I had, I had a couple of really good Dev friends who kind of walked me through why the ci thing continuous integration.
Grant Fritchey: was useful and then, if we could get ci that we could get automated deployments to QA and if we could do you know if we could do that, then we could you know what I mean and it just the whole ball started to roll and you realize.
Grant Fritchey: You okay so i'm wrong.
Grant Fritchey: And i've got now you know pony up and help them get the work done but, but I was the resistance, it was technical.
Grant Fritchey: Business was very much you know, like go faster, you know tablets are like we think this will go faster so they're like yes, then do it just do it do it.
Grant Fritchey: And and that's where you know that's how it went, but it was the resistance was internal it was not the hierarchy, it was very much a technical resistance.
Grant Fritchey: Sign I.
Grant Fritchey: I wouldn't be surprised if you see that still all over the place.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So you know realistically in your story, then, and probably is the case for many people, both who listen to db L and you know, let us know if this is similar to your story obviously we'd love to know.
Chris Unwin (He/They): but also many, many other people as well, will be dealing with that similar situation where they will either be the people with that growth mindset that coach mindset where they're looking to improve working practices.
Chris Unwin (He/They): But if if you just in a few short sentences, if you could talk to yourself 15 years ago.
Chris Unwin (He/They): When you were blocking a devops approach, what would you say.
Grant Fritchey: Well it's the same I do I do I tell that story now because I will I tell I will go to the developers conferences and say here's how you can venture de BA and I will go to tba conferences and say listen to me you idiots.
Grant Fritchey: But um no i'm not saying that and I know I don't call people names and that's very much a joke, but what I will say is i'm.
Grant Fritchey: devops ads protection to your production servers i'm protection that you couldn't get other ways so.
Grant Fritchey: source control ads you know, an additional backup and an additional way to do on dues and track, who made what changes, you know so you've got auditing.
Grant Fritchey: And all that stuff from source control the automation ads testing that you couldn't get other ways which adds protection to your production servers and and to me that's.
Grant Fritchey: that's the showstopper as a DPA.
Grant Fritchey: What i'm making my servers safer.
Grant Fritchey: huh okay sign me up where you know take my money, you know how do I, how do I get on you know subscribe like and subscribe.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So i've i've taken one thing away from this that is obviously devops makes deployments safer and it's great to see more people doing that and Chris can take one thing away from this in that calling people names is not a nice way to be.
Chris Kerswell: shut up video.
Chris Kerswell: Thank you for that contribution you're welcome.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So should we do, should we do one more one or two one.
More.
Grant Fritchey: let's see.
Grant Fritchey: This one's fun.
Grant Fritchey: This one's fun because it's messed up.
Grant Fritchey: that's right up my time Okay, so we we stratified some of the data like so people who are doing lots of you know, like and and the way you know, we asked the questions and stuff we got the feedback from people.
Grant Fritchey: And so we stratified some of the data there's the elite devops people you know who are doing like you know they're just devops monsters, and then there's the low devops people, people who are just.
Grant Fritchey: Either you're not at all, or are very, very minimal.
Chris Unwin (He/They): dipping your toe in.
Grant Fritchey: yeah and.
Grant Fritchey: So you know breaking it down elite high medium and low and like if you talk about something like version control the elite is 69% of the elite are doing version control.
Grant Fritchey: 68% of the higher doing version control 68% of the medium are doing version control.
Grant Fritchey: version control is you know something that a lot of people do the low end is 62% which I still think that that's a lie, but fine because that's databases like code in the database is in source control now here's the weird one.
Grant Fritchey: static code analysis.
Grant Fritchey: Who do you think does it more elite high medium or low and what percentage do they do.
Chris Unwin (He/They): static code analysis for database code specifically.
Grant Fritchey: Specifically database good.
Chris Kerswell: that's a tricky one and the fight you laid out like this makes me think it's the unexpected result.
Chris Kerswell: So i'm going to go with the low do it the most.
Chris Kerswell: And i'm gonna go with 40%.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I, I think that none of them will do it particularly well because static code analysis, much like testing is really hard in databases like it's not it's not like you put a thing there and magic happens right like static code analysis you're in vs code or visual studio you've got your.
Chris Unwin (He/They): you've got your various plugins what's the.
Chris Unwin (He/They): that's fine I it's.
Grant Fritchey: My you're.
Chris Unwin (He/They): My best let it be let it be known to the record that my beer has been gone for at least five minutes.
Chris Kerswell: A lot of hiccups from us.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Oh that's fine, so the yeah you've got your jet brains plugin in visual studio and it's you know, highlighting all your all your various issues.
Chris Unwin (He/They): But with database code.
Chris Unwin (He/They): i'm going to say that the medium performers did slightly better but i'm still convinced that they're probably only about 28%.
Grant Fritchey: i'm going to give this one, to Mr on one.
Grant Fritchey: Yes, because it's 28% is the number.
Grant Fritchey: One, but it is.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Low performers.
Grant Fritchey: Oh no performers did.
Grant Fritchey: 28% and the high did 24%, this is the only place where the high performers and the low performers swapped the only place.
Grant Fritchey: In fact, the high performers outperform everybody on everything except static code analysis and makes me think it's either.
Grant Fritchey: there's just not a lot of adoption on that on that concept yet or.
Grant Fritchey: it's a statistical anomaly, or maybe people know something I don't.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Maybe, because the boys together.
Chris Kerswell: How many people have responded to this question.
Grant Fritchey: yeah that I don't know i'll have to get had to get that one because it yeah it could be a statistical just a.
Chris Kerswell: 28% means that there must be at least.
Chris Kerswell: say enough i'd say like I said would be at least seven people respond to.
Chris Kerswell: mind.
Grant Fritchey: Well, and I mean we've got I mean there was 3200 responded so I mean, so I would think that any of these questions you're going to get at least five or 10 people answering one way or the other.
Chris Unwin (He/They): There was a question that had fewer than 10 responded out of 3200 people filling it out, I would relate I would be questioning whether or not that question belongs in.
Chris Kerswell: What what could have happened is that everyone.
Chris Kerswell: puts himself down as high, and so, then you'd if you only get say.
Chris Kerswell: Seven people respond to like as the lower than when you stretch five any device down.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Christmas.
Grant Fritchey: I think the degree that we asked a series of questions to get people.
Chris Kerswell: You know how frequently do.
Grant Fritchey: Do deployments How long do they take you know all this stuff and and those numbers were how we did the stratification it wasn't simply self identification.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I was gonna say then everyone will self identity yeah i'm doing i'm doing I was on I was on a call with a with a company literally last week.
Chris Unwin (He/They): And I won't name them, obviously, but the it was it was me the their account manager and also a number of high stakeholders so you've got various architects and db a's and developers.
Chris Unwin (He/They): And one person just unmuted and said yeah we like to think we're an agile shop, but actually we're more like a waterfall shop who pretends to be doing agile and everyone unmuted and was like yes that's true yes definitely not 100% what and I was like huh.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Okay, but a lot of people self identify still as being yeah high performing I would say we do devops do we have version control no static code analysis, no see I know CD no.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Do developers write scripts and deploy them to prod because we don't have access control sometimes.
Chris Kerswell: Is a previous company I worked at one of the projects that had an internal name of glacier.
Chris Kerswell: And the reason was that the the people, people doing it, and said that they were developers were used to work in waterfall failing to do agile and so the end result was glacier.
Grant Fritchey: Well anyway there's a bunch more data in the report, all kinds of cool stuff cloud adoption um how frequently people are doing their database releases.
Grant Fritchey: Who which which businesses are thriving over the last 12 months versus which ones aren't um you know information about coven and how its impacted things multiple database of states um it my gosh it's.
Grant Fritchey: The the amount of information in here is just so cool.
Grant Fritchey: And and we've even got the private numbers of we compare red gate.
Grant Fritchey: Customers versus non customers.
Chris Unwin (He/They): that's always helpful.
Grant Fritchey: You know it's just all kinds of fun stuff I mean there's just a lot going on database devops is accelerating and it's really exciting it's a really exciting place to be so.
Chris Kerswell: Important statistic of all is that I answered six questions right and Chris 123.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So.
Chris Kerswell: So I when.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I mean I demanded a recount which we'll get to maybe after today when.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I was.
Chris Kerswell: three and six.
Chris Unwin (He/They): or I carried on.
Grant Fritchey: that's that's 3am there'll be a new a whole bunch more.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Tremendous okay so basically what we're saying is whether you want to benchmark yourself against some of the industry standards, whether you want to identify whether you would class as a.
Chris Unwin (He/They): High medium low performer whether you want something to take to that you know to those executives or to that cultural push back to say hey look we're not if we do this we're not being left in the dust Okay, this is a worthwhile investment of our time.
Chris Unwin (He/They): and
Chris Unwin (He/They): You know if you just generally also want to know kind of how the industry is doing, how the industry, where the industry is going.
Chris Unwin (He/They): how people are adopting cloud working practices, etc, then basically it can all be found in one report that is the state of database devops report 2021 and grant where can we find this report, how do we get access.
Grant Fritchey: To it I don't have the link.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Is we.
Grant Fritchey: can tell me.
Chris Unwin (He/They): that's fine that's my fault.
Chris Unwin (He/They): i'll blame blame Chris Chris what's the what's the link.
Chris Kerswell: The link, I think I have to like I was given two legs.
Chris Kerswell: So not much better, but ok.com slash devops report.
Grant Fritchey: devops alright.
Chris Kerswell: easiest one.
Grant Fritchey: yeah.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I say oh yeah it see, we all know, it's red gate.com forward slash Dev OPS report.
Chris Unwin (He/They): No hyphens no spaces don't worry about it we've got you covered.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Also, we will be talking a lot about or we were talking a lot about the state of database devops report and the future of database devops at the red gate summit as well, so i've got we've kind of moved into the news now so seamless transition seamless transition.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Now i've lost it, but the the red gate summit so grant you were speaking at the red gate summit, and that that that whole summit is still available for people right.
Grant Fritchey: yeah yeah it's all recorded you guys can download it I did a much more detailed session on on the state of database devops and you know, including a whole bunch of numbers that we didn't talk about here.
Chris Kerswell: You mean you'd watch.
Grant Fritchey: My favorite guys.
Chris Kerswell: Do a Q quiz.
Now.
Grant Fritchey: Well, I got to show off my favorite bits and talk about why I thought that they were the more interesting.
Grant Fritchey: pieces I we pulled up a couple of them here but, but I also shied away, just so I wouldn't you know so anybody who listened to that already and then wants to listen to this is getting new information at least out of my mouth.
Grant Fritchey: And then I also did two panel sessions, with a whole bunch of people.
Grant Fritchey: and ask the expert sessions with them Cathy and Steve and then a another session with them gosh callin.
Chris Unwin (He/They): callin anyone who knows carolyn pop and Goldman from Microsoft a force to be reckoned with.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Oh yeah she's incredible intelligence.
Grant Fritchey: Just a couple of weeks ago got.
Grant Fritchey: They have like some Microsoft award I forget the exact name she wanted as doing Oracle on azure inside Microsoft she won a Microsoft employee or that's that's the world we're in now.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I I had dinner with so as one of the speakers, I went to the speaker dinner before past summit in 2019 and I had the privilege of sitting on the same table as kellen and.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Ben Weissman and.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I I just I sat there jet lagged to heck just thinking Why am I surrounded by these insanely intelligent people because I don't belong here.
Chris Unwin (He/They): It was, it was a good night, it was a really good night so so grant definitely people should check this out right there sure.
Grant Fritchey: sure.
Chris Unwin (He/They): yeah yes, so the the link, if you want to go and listen to, if you were to go watch the the summit, back then, all you have to do very, very simple red gate.com forward slash summit and learn all about the future of database devops.
Chris Kerswell: And that brings us on to a nice segue into another bit of news.
Chris Unwin (He/They): India and.
Chris Kerswell: Speaking of where you were in 2019 well where was that again.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So I was so I had taken the sequel train up from portland Oregon to Seattle and we definitely did not have donuts and beer because you're not allowed to eat and drink on those trains, so they were packed away and nobody touched them.
Chris Unwin (He/They): asterisk wink.
Grant Fritchey: I say i've seen the photos.
Chris Unwin (He/They): If I was I fell asleep at one point, it was it was all a bit much jet lag plus definitely not donuts.
Chris Kerswell: Definitely didn't create a sugar coma.
Chris Kerswell: Really most route as well because through this very scenic.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Oh beautiful and yeah I was a past summit, and obviously that takes us onto a really important piece of news that we won't spend too long, covering and just obviously you know.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Just an important news point to make sure we mentioned and that of course is Chris.
Chris Kerswell: Well, I guess, to set it up.
Chris Kerswell: whoops I guess to set it up it's it's important to say that you know, one of the sad things from the end of 2020 amongst a lot of.
Chris Kerswell: Barriers sad things that happened 2020 that we won't go into detail, was that of course pass we're.
Chris Kerswell: struggling to to operate, so I think we're all very happy to to find out, especially us here at red gate that we're taking on.
Chris Kerswell: Pass, along with sequel Saturdays and all the previous content as well.
Chris Kerswell: yeah what will happen.
Chris Kerswell: To all of that we don't quite know yet.
Chris Kerswell: But yeah for now red gate has committed to the future of paths, and that is great news we're really excited about that news internally at red gate i'm hoping that the Community is excited to see the past is still good.
Chris Kerswell: As well yeah.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Exactly, and if you if you want to have a little bit of a look.
Chris Unwin (He/They): At the current kind of Q amp a and everything obviously you can just.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Your search engine of choice search for red gate pass PA ws and you might well stumbled across a couple of blog posts we've written on the subject.
Chris Unwin (He/They): letting you know, obviously, our intentions for to try and help the Community everything that we've acquired, what are we doing with the content, what what's next for sequel Saturdays all these sorts of things and we want to hear from you isn't that right ground.
Grant Fritchey: yeah very much so, we are looking for feedback on it so anything that they can do follow follow the link and.
Grant Fritchey: You know, if you do the search and please, please, please give us some feedback because it's as a community thing it's not our thing, so we want to make sure we do the right stuff The one thing I can tell you that we are doing is the the existing content.
Grant Fritchey: All the videos that are available from from last year's past summit, the all the past summits before that.
Grant Fritchey: We are making that available online for free that much I do know and that much I can share that's all going to be available for free behind, not behind a wall, not behind any kind of registration is going to be on you know 100% free on YouTube you know or wherever and.
Grant Fritchey: yay go watch it learn get your learn on.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Absolutely, we want to do the right thing, we will do the right thing.
Chris Unwin (He/They): we're here to help so yeah definitely check that out there's also a forum on sequel server central so go and check that form out and, if you want to stay up to date, of course, there will be plenty of opportunities for you to opt in and hey here's to the future right.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So we've we've got very, very short amount of time left, we do have, as far as I can tell from as far as I can tell from planning, we had a data breach each data each.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Chris did you investigate one or two other.
Chris Kerswell: I investigated both there wasn't a huge amount of information really on either, but i'll go with.
Chris Kerswell: Which one do you want to take rest okay.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I wanted to do so i'm going to start off with.
Chris Unwin (He/They): The meat mindful breach.
Chris Unwin (He/They): I think that's really interesting so effectively data belonging to the website meet mindful.com, which is a dating site.
Chris Unwin (He/They): was actually breached, so it was about 2.28 million users were breached, it was basically dumped on a forum, it was a 1.2 gigabyte file of just the site's users database and included, but was not limited to real names email addresses dating preferences marital status latitude and longitude.
Chris Unwin (He/They): IP addresses.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Be crypt hashed account passwords and Facebook user ids and authentication tokens.
Chris Kerswell: yeah that last one is the big one.
Chris Kerswell: wow whoa.
Chris Unwin (He/They): yeah, so this is kind of big kind of sensitive obviously there was a breach few years back, as well, I can't remember what it was, it was the.
Chris Unwin (He/They): It was like an elite dating site, or something.
Chris Unwin (He/They): That had a data breach.
Chris Kerswell: Talking about the cheating one.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Yes, the secret affairs site, or whatever I can't remember anyway, the this one's obviously not specifically that it's just a dating site, but at the same time, the thing that stuck out to me is not particularly massive I still 2.28 million people, which is a lot.
Chris Unwin (He/They): it's the set it's the data points in the file specifically like the the Facebook user ids and off tokens the yo.
Chris Unwin (He/They): All of the information that was included is just so sensitive that you don't really even know be correct is pretty secure.
Chris Unwin (He/They): But you don't even need that really to tie back to a person's identity, so I just thought it was really, really interesting and this one was this I saw this one posted on.
Chris Unwin (He/They): On zeb dinette zed net.
Chris Kerswell: pronounced either I was wondering is.
Chris Unwin (He/They): But it was on the 24th of January that it was it was highlighted that I picked up on it.
Chris Kerswell: just in time for valentine's day.
Chris Unwin (He/They): just in time.
Chris Kerswell: wanting to have found interesting about this, the person expose it was going by the name shiny hunters.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Was Chinese Internet pokemon Chinese if you play pokemon you've got a very.
Chris Unwin (He/They): miniscule chance of finding a shiny pokemon.
Chris Kerswell: So this individual is I guess by her name for themselves, and someone who exposes a lot of personal information online.
Chris Kerswell: Recently did this.
Chris Kerswell: With a company called T spring as well.
Chris Kerswell: Okay didn't actually seem to hack it themselves into by the data on the dark web and then expose it whatever reason.
Chris Unwin (He/They): The interesting and the final one for today, then Chris.
Chris Kerswell: So it's not really a data breach it's more of an update to an ongoing story that's about data breach but British Airways.
Chris Kerswell: Have while they had a data breach quite a while ago in 2018 anyone who was exposed to being emailed about it as part of that we've been following the ongoing story on the finds that word laid out and by the ICO and even.
Chris Kerswell: Further details came out recently about how the they could be eligible.
Chris Kerswell: Those those who are notified to anywhere from 6000 to 16,000 pound if your data was exposing the data breach, and so the something called a farmer.
Chris Kerswell: I am I, what is it called something.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Use your mouse words Chris.
Chris Kerswell: yeah class action lawsuit.
Chris Kerswell: So that the legal farmers, representing the class action lawsuit.
Chris Unwin (He/They): In the UK called a group litigation I started that one.
Chris Kerswell: Since fancy all right also called a GL I in the UK, so that is yep so that is who is asking for people to get in contact and i'd encourage you to if you want to email from BA in 2018 saying that he was exposed to contact them and potentially at least get some compensation from.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Interesting cool well in that case, then that brings us to the end of db ALE and just to recap some points there obviously there's a few really exciting.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Few exciting things moving forward so, of course, if you want to review the red gate Summit that was on recently that has a wealth of information, then of course that is red gate.com forward slash summit.
Chris Unwin (He/They): If you want to get your hands on a copy of that wonderful state of database devops report with all of that excellent information benchmarking everything you could ever want to know.
Chris Unwin (He/They): From 3200 people, which is still crazy I can't believe it but that's just red gate.com forward slash devops report and, of course.
Chris Unwin (He/They): As always, big up to the red gate hub, if you ever want to learn everything there is to know about any of the red gate solutions learning articles anything at all.
Chris Unwin (He/They): Of course, red gate university and others are your places you'll find them all under the red gate up but for now it's a massive massive Thank you to of course ground for he for day drinking with us.
Chris Unwin (He/They): And for the recording grant made a face into waving motion so.
Grant Fritchey: Oh yeah sorry yeah.
Grant Fritchey: This is a podcast.
Grant Fritchey: Thank you, yes.
Chris Unwin (He/They): So yes, grant was here and waving and day drinking so that's how we like it, and a massive, thank you for me, of course, Chris.
Chris Kerswell: bar for me.
Chris Unwin (He/They): i'm for now cheers.
Grant Fritchey: cheers cheers.
Chris Kerswell: I just remember but.